

Munz2009 - Zombie basic SZR

This is the basic SZR model for zombie infection.

It is based on a classic mathematical model in epidemiology, the SIR model,
which divides the population in three classes (Susceptible, Infectious, and
Recovered) to predict the behaviour of an infection over the course of time.
Here, the SZR model divides the population into Susceptible, Zombie, and
Removed.

This model was originally created by libAntimony v1.4 (using libSBML 3.4.1).

This model is described in the article:

[When zombies attack!: Mathematical modelling of an outbreak of zombie infecti
on](http://isbndb.com/book/infectious_disease_modelling_research_progress)

P. Munz, I. Hudea, J. Imad and R.J. Smith?

Infectious Disease Modelling Research Progress 2009, chapter 4, pp 133-150.
Editors: Jean Michel Tchuenche and C. Chiyaka; Nova Science Publishers, Inc.,
NY, USA.

Abstract:

Zombies are a popular figure in pop culture/entertainment and they are usually
portrayed as being brought about through an outbreak or epidemic.
Consequently, we model a zombie attack, using biological assumptions based on
popular zombie movies. We introduce a basic model for zombie infection,
determine equilibria and their stability, and illustrate the outcome with
numerical solutions. We then refine the model to introduce a latent period of
zombification, whereby humans are infected, but not infectious, before
becoming undead. We then modify the model to include the effects of possible
quarantine or a cure. Finally, we examine the impact of regular, impulsive
reductions in the number of zombies and derive conditions under which
eradication can occur. We show that only quick, aggressive attacks can stave
off the doomsday scenario: the collapse of society as zombies overtake us all.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1009230000](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1009230000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

